well for a long time scientists and many
people have been interested in what
environment did early humans evolved
where did we originate was at the
African savannah the grassland or the
ice age of Europe and so I went to East
Africa to the Great Rift Valley to
understand something about the
environments of early humans I kept
walking up and down the eroded gullies
and hillside and seeing layer after
layer and at one layer maybe the lake
was present another layer the lake was
gone there was a drought another layer
there is a forest or a woodland another
layer a grassland and I kept thinking
maybe it wasn't just one environment
where early humans evolved but rather it
was the change ability that the ability
of the environment to change back and
forth between one and another that was
the key ingredient in how humans evolved
and how he became so adaptable able to
live anywhere on Earth so if this idea
was right then early humans our
ancestors should be associated mainly
with places on earth where environments
changed and so I went to that part of
the world South China where there was
the reputation for an unchanging
environment a place where there was
environmental stability a forest that
existed for a million years and so I
already knew that Chinese scientists had
found stone tools there so what were
securely humans doing there if the
environment was so stable so I went
there and dug with my Chinese colleagues
and indeed what we found in the ground
were stone tools indicating the early
humans were there in that layer we found
these also and these are what are known
as tektites these are pieces of molten
earth rock that had been blown out of
the earth do you do a meteor impact a
meteorite impact in Earth's upper
atmosphere heating up the earth in that
region of the world and these tektites
were spread all the way from out of this
explosion from australia to to southern
china and these hot objects burned down
the forests and so what we think then is
that the early humans the makers of
these stone tools were able to come
across that landscape and take advantage
of the animals that had died
perhaps some of the the burned meat and
and burned burned plants that they could
eat it's almost like cooking and that
they were able to survive a landscape
that had been completely devastated and
they were indeed creatures of change
that they were adapted to survive on
this changing landscape and so it meant
that my idea had some viability that was
perhaps correct that it wasn't a bad
idea after all
you